FX2024 Domain & Capabilities update / Quantify / Planning and Estimating (#681)
microsoft/finops-toolkit: docs/_docs/framework/capabilities/quantify/planning.md

- The [Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/tco/calculator/) can be used to input details about your on-premises infrastructure, including servers, databases, storage, and networking, to determine your current TCO and obtain recommended services in Azure. After entering details of your on-premises infrastructure, the TCO Calculator presents cost reports showcasing the cost differences between running workloads on-premises versus in Azure that can be saved and shared across team members.

- The [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/) is a valuable tool for estimating and analyzing costs associated with various Microsoft Azure resources and services. Within the Azure Pricing Calculator, custom scenarios can be analyzed by generating estimates and configuring resources to match specific parameters. Cost savings such as Reserved Instances, Savings Plans, and Azure Hybrid Benefit can also be evaluated. By logging in with your Azure credentials, custom estimates can be saved and shared with other team members to make informed decisions about your Azure deployments.

<br>

## 🏗️ Building on the basics

> - The [Azure Advisor Cost Optimization Workbook](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/advisor/advisor-cost-optimization-workbook) can be used to evaluate usage optimization and rate optimization recommendations for current workloads in Azure. These insights provide recommendations such as rightsizing or shutting down underutilized resources and recommendations for acquiring reservations and savings plans. The recommendations provide resource details that can be used for planning adjustments or estimating the cost of any changes to the workload.
> 
> - Within Microsoft Cost Management and Billing, [Cost Analysis](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/quick-acm-cost-analysis) can be used to analyze Actual, Amortized, and Forecasted costs of the selected scope. Built-in views can provide cost insights on resources, resource groups, subscriptions, or reservations.
> 
> - Budgets in [Microsoft Cost Management and Billing](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/cost-analysis-common-uses) help with planning for and driving organizational accountability by proactively informing stakeholders of Azure spending. With budgets, spending limits and alerts can be configured based on either actual or forecasted cost thresholds allowing for timely action to take place.
> 
> - The [Dev/Test Offer](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devtest/offer/overview-what-is-devtest-offer-visual-studio) can be used for trial runs to estimate cost/test architecture.
> 
> - Define [Azure Policies](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/overview) needed to enforce organizational standards and to assess compliance at scale. Built-in policy definitions can be leveraged to compare the properties of resources against defined standards and built-in initiatives to simplify management by enforcing multiple policies as a single unit.
> 
> With these insights, you can make more accurate cost predictions and manage your cloud budget effectively.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the [Cost optimization workbook](../../../../_workbooks/optimization-workbook/README.md) to optimize current workloads and reduce potential future estimates.
- Review the [Architecting for cloud](../optimize/architecting.md) capability to ensure workloads are designed for efficiency.
- Evaluate options to reduce costs through the [Rate optimization](../optimize/rates.md) capability.
- Automate best practices through [Azure Policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/overview) to enforce organizational standards at scale.

With these insights, you can make more accurate cost predictions and manage your cloud budget effectively.
```

<br>

## 🍎 Learn more at the FinOps Foundation

This capability is a part of the FinOps Framework by the FinOps Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing cloud cost management and optimization. For more information about FinOps, including useful playbooks, training and certification programs, and more, see to the [planning and estimating](https://www.finops.org/framework/capabilities/planning-estimating/) article in the FinOps Framework documentation.

<br>

## ⏩ Next steps

Related FinOps capabilities:

- [Forecasting](./forecasting.md)

> - [Onboarding workloads](../manage/onboarding.md)
> - [Chargeback and finance integration](../manage/invoicing-chargeback.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Architecting for cloud](../optimize/architecting.md)
- [Workload optimization](../optimize/workloads.md)
- [Rate optimization](../optimize/rates.md)
```
